### Part 6: Branching and the Art of Collaboration {#part-6-branching-and-the-art-of-collaboration}

At this point you should have two repositories listed in your GitHub account: the one you built for yourself, and the one you just forked. Now we are going to collaborate on a very simple web based application.

1.  Point your browser to [https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp](https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp). Note that in the **issues** tab there are a number of things we want to fix. You will be assigned just one of these issues to change.
2.  Clone this repository down to your Coding &amp; Cocktails folder. (_Hint: Review the steps for cloning a repository in Part 3)_.
3.  Since you will want to be working within this new repo you just cloned, change your directory to be your DrinkOrderApp directory.
4.  Now we want to make a new branch of this repository. A _branch_ is a copy of the repository that (for our purposes) focuses on one change or kind of change to the repository. In your command line (Git Bash or iTerm2) type git checkout -b [newbranchname] where “newbranchname” is the branch name for the issue we will assign to you in class. We suggest using issue-## as your branch name so if you were assigned issue #4 your branch name would be issue-04.
5.  To list all branches within the repo, use git branch . This should show you at least two branches - master, and the one you just created. The branch you are working in will be highlighted with an asterisk (*).
6.  Take a look at the folder where you created your Drink Order App copy. You’ll see that there is still only one copy of the code in this folder. That’s because the changes you make are being routed through Git using the command line functions. Thus, which branch you are in when you commit your changes makes all the difference!
7.  Open SublimeText and navigate to your Drink App folder. Based on whichever issue you were assigned, make your change to the file and save your changes.
8.  When the change is made, use git status to find out if your branch is up to date. If it is, add your changes to the branch, commit them with a message describing what you updated, and use git push origin [branchname], substituting your own branch name. Now you have pushed your changes to the _origin_ (that is, to the cloud), to your specific branch.
9.  Next, you have to migrate your changes from the branch you have been working on to the _master_ branch. To do this we create a **pull request.** Go to [https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp](https://github.com/KansasCityWomeninTechnology/DrinkOrderApp) and click on the green **New Pull Request** button.
10.  You will be prompted to select the “base”, which is where you are moving your changes TO, and the “compare”, which is where you are moving them FROM. If Git detects no conflicts, it will give you a checkmarked message saying “able to merge.” Below that will be your _commit_ message. Scrolling down further you will be able to see the commit history that is being included in this request, and the actual changed code. At the bottom for your message box, click on **Create pull request**.
11.  Typically we would expect someone to have oversight into merging the pull requests into the master branch to become the final version of the code. Once your pull request is accepted by this person, you can view your code in the master branch, along with all of the changes your peers have made.

**Congratulations! You’ve collaborated on a project for the first time!**