### Part 4: Staging, Committing, and Pushing to GitHub {#part-4-staging-committing-and-pushing-to-github}

There are three vital steps to pushing your changes up to GitHub: **staging, committing,** and **pushing.** The first step is to tell Git which files you want to add to the repository. This is called _staging_ your changes. Then, you prepare to push them using the _commit_ command. Finally, the committed changes are pushed up to the cloud and Git assigns a unique alpha-numeric log entry, known as a _commit hash_, to track that change. Let’s try it now.

1.  In Git Bash or iTerm2, type git add README.md . Alternatively, you could also type git add --A, which would add all files you have modified lately. To verify that your files were added, use git status, which will tell you all about your repo. the last line will show which files have been modified.
2.  Commit your changes with a brief message like this: git commit -m &quot;First Commit of the README.md file&quot;. The -m message is always necessary and should accurately and concisely describe the content of the changes. This is important information for those who will be responsible for maintaining your code later. Your changes have been committed and are ready to load up to GitHub.
3.  Use the command git push origin master to initiate the push. “Origin” tells Git you are pushing the changes to the original remote location and “Master” indicates which branch within the remote location. This will be more important later.
4.  At each prompt, enter your username and password. Your password will be masked so don’t be surprised if it looks like you are not typing anything on that line.
5.  Note that the last line assigns the commit hash for this first commit. Voila! You have pushed your first revision to GitHub!